---
author_name: Andrew Westgarth
layout: post
hide_excerpt: true
---
      [Andrew Westgarth](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Andrew Westgarth)  1/19/2017 10:00:00 AM  Windows Azure Pack Web Sites V2 is an on-premises, high density, multi-tenant web hosting for service providers and enterprise IT and provides an experience similar to the predecessor to Azure App Service, Azure Web Sites. The product is deployed on top of Windows Server 2012 R2 and is an optional add-on to Windows Azure Pack. With the release of Windows Server 2016, the Windows Azure Pack team amended the support lifecycle to reflect that Windows Azure Pack V2 from Update Rollup 11 is supported on Windows Server 2016, however this is not the case for Windows Azure Pack Web Sites. Windows Azure Pack Web Sites is only supported on Windows Server 2012 R2 and is subject to the same support lifecycle dates that were previously published for Windows Azure Pack running on Windows Server 2012 R2. We understand this is causing some confusion and concern amongst customers so this blog post is intended to clarify the position for users of Windows Azure Pack Web Sites. Windows Azure Pack Web Sites v2 Mainstream support ends on 11th July 2017
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Windows Azure Pack Web Sites has a direct dependency on Windows Server 2012 R2 and as such will adhere to the following support lifecycle dates:    Lifecycle Start date 14th January 2014   **Mainstream Support End Date** **11th July 2017**   **Extended Support End Date** **12th July 2022**    Guidance on what is covered under Extended Support can be found at [https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17140/general-lifecycle-policy-questions](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17140/general-lifecycle-policy-questions "https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17140/general-lifecycle-policy-questions") **But Windows Azure Pack can be deployed on Windows Server 2016, what about Web Sites?** Windows Azure Pack Web Sites does not support deployment on top of Windows Server 2016. Windows Azure Pack can be deployed on Windows Server 2012 R2 and with Update Rollup 11 can be deployed on Windows Server 2016 but **Windows Azure Pack Web Sites is ONLY supported on Windows Server 2012 R2.** **What about Updates?** Update Rollups for Windows Azure Pack Web Sites will continue to be published until July 2017, after that date no regular updates will be published. **Questions?** If you have any questions or feedback around this clarification and Windows Azure Pack Web Sites please add them to the comments on this post and I will respond.     